---
layout: post
title: "I'm Sick of the Bullshit"
tags: startups
year: 2013
month: 9
day: 21
published: false
---

A few weeks ago I threw up my hands and realized I'm thoroughly sick of the entrepreneurship bullshit.

I'm sick of the buzz words. I'm sick of the entrepredouches. I'm sick of the pitch and business plan contests that encourage founders to spam their network for votes. I'm sick of the fundraising obsession. I'm sick of the networking events.

I'm sick of talking about anything not related to making great products for your customers and growing your business. And I'm finally okay with not trying to fit into any of it anymore.

The reality is growing a business is hard, but it's also incredibly fun and exciting to a lot of people and tons of people are starting startups right now. Unfortunately, most of them do not take off.

This means we have a disproportionately large community of would-be entrepreneurs that have not done it, yet they make most of the noise.

Of course, there is nothing wrong with being excited about startups and talking about them all the time. The problem is if you can't see through it you become a victim to it.

You start to think being popular in this community means more than building a business. I know I made the same mistake, trying too hard to get fellow entrepreneurs to like me despite the fact that they had not really been successful.

I didn't know what success even meant in business, so I figured being loud and overconfident were good indicators of someone I should know. I thought that networking events were critical to the success of my business because I might meet one of those people.

But I never liked any of it. Really, I smelled bullshit from the first entrepreneur-related event I went to. I just thought I had to like it if I wanted to make it in business. I questioned my introverted personality and abilities because of this.

It turns out that successful founders weren't even going to these events, but I didn't know it because they weren't loud enough. The very people I wanted to know clearly knew something I didn't.

To get to these people, I had to do something different: I had to get my business off the ground.

Once my company started generating revenue, I realized that practically none of the people I used to care about impressing made the business take off.

I realized that "staying in" with the company and our team was the most important thing we could do, and that most events outside of this were distractions that rarely paid off.

That doesn't mean I don't want to help other founders get off the ground. I absolutely do. But I want to share my understanding of the startup game with them so they, too might see through the bullshit.

I want to show atypical founders that you don't have to like the entrepreneurship crap in order to start a company, and that the world actually needs more of you and less of the typical entrepredeouche.

So with that I'm done going to most startup or entrepreneurship events. I'm done caring more about the meta than my own company.

I'm done with the bullshit, and my company keeps growing.




