---
layout: post
title: "Madison's Future"
category: Blog
tags: madison
year: 2013
month: 1
day: 8
published: true
backgroundImage: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/maxlynch.com/Madison_Wisconsin_skyline_night_0855_small.jpg"
backgroundImageCredit: "unknown"
summary: 
---

<p class="meta">January 8th, 2013</p>

# {{ page.title }} #

When I graduated, I wanted nothing more than to get the hell out of Madison.
 
I don't think Madison has historically handled the transition from UW-Madison student into local Madison citizen very well. The downtown area has traditionally been so student-heavy that most students view the university as the core of the city and aren't interested in hanging around college kids after they graduate, so they leave as soon as they get their diploma (among other reasons).

Further out of the downtown area are traditional Madison powerhouse companies like Epic that draw hundreds if not thousands of new employees from all over the world to the west side of the city each year. But this means young people wind up living in terribly boring fringe areas of the city, despite younger people statistically [preferring urban areas and car-less living](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/29/business/global/carmakers-try-to-figure-out-the-new-generation.html?pagewanted=all). This also means they don't bring as much of their income dollars into the downtown area. High turnover at those jobs coupled with west-side living means many just leave the city if they change jobs.

But lately, a lot of that has changed. Run-down student housing in the Basset neighborhood has been torn down to build nicer apartments that will attract young professionals and create new sub-neighborhoods.

Construction on the east side of the city has made Willy street easier to travel on for bikes and cars, and better lighting has made it safer at night. 

New "startup-friendly" office space is in the works that will better serve the future of smaller, distributed businesses and workers that just don't need the large, overly expensive office space of the past.

Madison is an incredibly smart city. We draw so many bright and energetic people from all over the world into the city, and we will continue to benefit from this.

The trick will be making sure our city can entertain and attract young people which increasingly choose to live in urban areas where resources and entertainment are within walking distances and where cars aren't necessary for living.

I used to not want to live in Madison. For the two years after I graduated in 2010 I was so eager to get out and move to San Francisco. But lately, I've been thinking that staying in this city could be a smart bet long term. 

Combine intelligence, education, liberal values, urban development, low-unemployment, and beautiful natural features, and you have a recipe for a increasingly great place to live. Add in low costs of living with a top tier university and you've got a great place to start a startup and a great local talent pool that big name companies routinely try to pull from.

A great place to live means higher property values and positive ROI.

My girlfriend and I recently started planning for the next few years of our lives. For the first time in my life I am thinking of buying a house, and in Madison no less. It seems like a great investment in a city with such huge long-term potential.

I plan to keep my [software company](http://drifty.co/) in the city for as long as it works with all parties involved, and we are proud that we bring in revenue primarily from customers outside of the city (and the country in many cases). I hope we are able to contribute to Madison's great future for many years to come.

Here's to Madison!
